# Developer Intro

pdfly is an application and thus non-developers
might also use it.

## Installing Requirements

```
pip install -r requirements/dev.txt
```

## Running Tests

See [testing pdfly with pytest](testing.md)

## Tools: git and pre-commit

Git is a command line application for version control. If you don't know it,
you can [play ohmygit](https://ohmygit.org/) to learn it.

GitHub is the service where the pdfly project is hosted. While git is free and
open source, GitHub is a paid service by Microsoft, but free in a lot of
cases.

[pre-commit](https://pypi.org/project/pre-commit/) is a command line application
that uses git hooks to automatically execute code. This allows you to avoid
style issues and other code quality issues. After you entered `pre-commit install`
once in your local copy of pdfly, it will automatically be executed when
you `git commit`.

## Commit Messages

Having a clean commit message helps people to quickly understand what the commit
is about, without actually looking at the changes. The first line of the
commit message is used to [auto-generate the CHANGELOG](https://github.com/py-pdf/pdfly/blob/main/make_release.py).
For this reason, the format should be:

```
PREFIX: DESCRIPTION

BODY
```

The `PREFIX` can be:

* `SEC`: Security improvements. Typically an infinite loop that was possible.
* `BUG`: A bug was fixed. Likely there is one or multiple issues. Then write in
   the `BODY`: `Closes #123` where 123 is the issue number on GitHub.
   It would be absolutely amazing if you could write a regression test in those
   cases. That is a test that would fail without the fix.
   A bug is always an issue for pdfly users - test code or CI that was fixed is
   not considered a bug here.
* `ENH`: A new feature! Describe in the body what it can be used for.
* `DEP`: A deprecation. Either marking something as "this is going to be removed"
   or actually removing it.
* `PI`: A performance improvement. This could also be a reduction in the
        file size of PDF files generated by pdfly.
* `ROB`: A robustness change. Dealing better with broken PDF files.
* `DOC`: A documentation change. `Docs:` is also allowed for commits made by DependaBot.
* `TST`: Adding or adjusting tests.
* `DEV`: Developer experience improvements, e.g. pre-commit or setting up CI.
* `MAINT`: Quite a lot of different stuff. Performance improvements are for sure
           the most interesting changes in here. Refactorings as well.
* `STY`: A style change. Something that makes pdfly code more consistent.
         Typically a small change. It could also be better error messages for
         end users.

The prefix is used to generate the CHANGELOG. Every PR must have exactly one -
if you feel like several match, take the top one from this list that matches for
your PR.

## Pull Request Size

Smaller Pull Requests (PRs) are preferred as it's typically easier to merge
them. For example, if you have some typos, a few code-style changes, a new
feature, and a bug-fix, that could be 3 or 4 PRs.

A PR must be complete. That means if you introduce a new feature it must be
finished within the PR and have a test for that feature.

## Releases

To perform a new release:
1. update `__version__` in `pdfly/_version.py` & `CHANGELOG.md` in order to specify the release date for the new version
2. perform a `REL`-prefixed commit, _e.g;_ `REL: X.Y.0"`, then make & merge a PR for it
3. trigger a new release on <https://github.com/py-pdf/pdfly/releases/new>, and use the `CHANGELOG.md` content for the release description

The Github Actions pipeline should create a new `git` tag,
and then publish a new version on Pypi: <https://pypi.org/project/pdfly/#history>
